i've always followed
products that i love airtable had a very
similar calling
i think software is entering a new phase
with its own version of creators people
don't want to buy one-size-fits-all
solutions they'll want to make it
themselves
i think that's the space area table
fills that product obsession that comes
from within the company it transfers to
outside
when you invest in your users and let
them connect with each other to your
leaders
you give them a voice
we are so inspired by what we see our
customers build
it is almost remarkably easy to get lost
in
the noise that we find around us today
how do you get the core out to the
audience in a more creative way
i need something that's flexible and can
move with me and can change with me
things are always always changing but
the part of the trick there is to stay
ahead of the game
good morning everyone i'm archana
agrawal chief marketing officer of
airtable it's such a privilege to be
here today
some of you in the audience are probably
starting off with product market fit
others are operating at really large
scale
and i'm here today to share my
perspectives and learnings on how to
modernize your marketing machine
you know i started off as a developer
and in my route to marketing i learned
the role marketing can play in building
buying processes at scale
this is decidedly different
from marketing facilitating sales
selling or marketing facilitating
product launching features
this is truly the role of the modern
marketing team
driving buying processes at scale
i've had the privilege to join airtable
and really build the marketing team from
ground up
we started from scratch
but we also operate at scale
serving over 300 000 organizations of
all shapes and sizes including 80 of the
fortune 100.
before this i ran the i was the head of
enterprise and cloud marketing at
atlassian
and i also serve on the boards of
zendesk and mongodb
all great companies operating at scale
and what better way to share that with
you then maybe start off with the
metrics that i look at
and you'll see here a sort of a
difference here in the number of types
of metrics that we follow
as a marketer one of the things that i
do often enough is bring new products to
market right and
one of the ways i figure out whether
we're ready to launch our products is
actually understanding the customer
feedback we've received
even before the product is generally
available
through our beta programs
and that's what you see here for our
most recent launch which was the
airtable interface designer we had 43
creators in our beta program and though
their their conversations their language
the ability to speak to them is what
helped shape that launch
and during the course of that launch i
had zero status meetings and i'm really
proud of that
and it's of course we met on a weekly
basis cross-functional teams came
together and we shared the big picture
of what our priorities were
but you know for each and every work
stream
sort of the day-to-day what what needs
to happen how are we pacing for the
launch date
everybody every day all day had that
information at their fingertips and then
of course kleenex escalation box where
required
and once we bring these products and
content into the market just like you
would try to understand
product adoption usage in the same way
we try to understand content consumption
is it helping
is it moving the needle
and those are the kind of metrics that
we follow across all of our channel and
our content
and here's what you see an example of
that which was the increase in the
youtube watch time which is just one of
those kind of metrics i'd love to dig
into these and more as we talk about
what does modernization of marketing
mean
you know marketing needs today to be the
interface between the customer
and the company
and that customer centricity needs to be
now at the core of marketing
and we're constantly evolving with the
business needs
tell me
how many times has things have things
had to change because i don't know
product dates moved or a new channel or
a new platform new competitor
a new geo that you had to manage things
move and marketing moves
and in order to be able to do that
effectively agility and operational
excellence needs to be part of the core
of our dna
and when there's so much to do the
volume velocity the variety of the
things that you're doing is increasing
all the time
the best way to be able to know that
you're focusing on the right things at
the right time is to really use a very
very data informed approach
there's so many customer touch points
today
so many different ways to go to market i
feel just sort of in my span and my
career in marketing i've seen companies
move from one predominant sales motion
to being
sales lead
product led
developer led
marketplaces partner-led and most
companies now blend these different go
to market motions
and this requires marketing to always be
at the forefront and keep changing as
the customer buying behaviors change and
really to be able to have all of these
different motions to be able to be
present in an omni-channel way customer
first and then a very service-oriented
approach
to do all of that you need to be
absolutely deliberate in your customer
engagement
so let's talk about what customer
centricity could actually mean in that
case and i can tell you how we implement
it here at airtable as we're building
the marketing team
we invested very very heavily in a
centralized research team because that
research sort of forms the seed of a lot
of what we do
very deliberate customer interactions to
make sure that we have the voice of the
customer shaping our programs whether
this comes in the form of community or
it comes in the form of cabs whatever it
might be but be able to take the
customer along in this journey and we
have our wonderful product partners that
are always with us through this
including building fully fleshed out
product programs that we can use in
order to inform how we go to market
i'll start together with but we're
talking about how we did this at
airtable and we could we could go into
further discussions in the q a section
but
you know bringing customer together that
can connect over
shared interest shared themes and topics
we learn from them they learn from each
other and how they're operating their
business but they also then can provide
a lot of input into our roadmap once you
see what's coming along
in fact in one of our last cabs we used
what we call the dollar bill exercise
where we gave our customers fake dollars
and asked them to help
invest in our road map how much would
they invest in various features those
are the kind of decisions we anyways
have to make why not make it with our
customers and take some of their input
and once they help shape some of that
and those features start coming together
then we can actually bring them again
together to try to understand you know
really what does an mvp look like what
does scoping look like how do we shape
this launch how do we bring it to market
and get
feedback from them and make that one fit
part of their workflow
and so that brings us to the kind of
metrics then we look at right which is
can we can we get customers to give us
this feedback and think about what it
would actually entail
well it's a lot of pitch conversations
initially to get customers as part of
the beta program
those which is teach us
product marketers learn what's
resonating with the customers what works
right and then with we take this
pictures we help improve them as we
we're
fine-tuning our go-to-market uh messages
and we allow folks to participate in
whatever format uh works for them so
that's easy and low friction think about
form submissions or zoom meetings where
there's screen sharing
slack channels with these customers and
so there's a constant dialogue between
the teams so that we can help take their
feedback and get these
these improvements into our product
before we make it generally available
but when you think about doing so many
different things then you really want to
go deep on these initiatives you want to
keep up with your marketing capabilities
you realize that there's a lot of
complexity in the process
and candidly the pandemic has further
exacerbated it right because it's just
changed the way we work uh completely
and i don't know about you but i i have
an instinct that while all of these new
things that we need to do come to bear
teams don't have the commensurate
additional resources to go and tackle it
so for example even in that launch when
you add so much to a launch team's plate
it becomes a lot to manage
and so operational marketing has become
absolutely essential for modern
marketing
and the reality is you know um unless
your website is optimized and you have
uh your demand and engine running
effectively your self-serve conversion
rates are at industry benchmarks you
have great social engagement you're
running great events you know when all
of those things are being done on budget
then and only then does marketing get to
move out of block and tackle mode and
then get to part
evolve strategically and so it is
absolutely imperative that we take sort
of operations to the next level
and work through
the variety of things a marketer needs
to do the fun part of the job of course
is that we have
such diverse functions in marketing
right
but it also means that everyone has
their own tools and their own systems
that they're working through
what ends up happening is that teams get
preoccupied in the minutia of how to
make work happen
rather than focusing on what they need
to which is the customer
we ran a recent survey that showed
marketing leaders spend about a day and
a half
in manual tasks and moving different
data from different places to get the
visibility that they need
that the average marketing team uses 23
tools
when you think about the implication of
that you realize what ends up happening
is data is siloed different teams don't
have the visibility into what the other
team is doing
and it's really hard for for for them to
show their impact but also really hard
for leaders to actually get the
visibility to make the decisions that
they need to
and so in order to be able to do that
we at a table have made sort of
operational excellence an absolute
must-have for our teams and i really
recommend taking a very progressive
stance towards how you think about you
your teams should work
very simple things but whatever can be
automated
do that do not have teams do manual
tasks um or simply try to reduce your
dependency on other teams to the extent
that you can operate in with low code
tools or no code tools and you can
change them and flex them with your
needs that's super important invest in
your tech stack so that it grows with
you while you scale
and i can show you what what we do at a
table of course for in a table we would
use a table but regardless of whatever
tool you you use you can use some of
these principles and and and and make
them yours uh an example that's very
important to us is
everyone should operate off of the same
underlying data
and you can see that here right the
product teams
may have their own interface but they're
looking at the same data to understand
customer feedback
and the marketing teams looking at that
same feedback in order to be able to
turn around and come through with
positioning
and every morning as i'd get in to be
able to look at what is it on my deck to
approve i go to a single interface that
tells me what teams are waiting on from
me in order to approve so that they can
move on to the next step and i can
provide feedback right there
and that is that same data that is
powering the dashboards i share with my
peers so that they understand how the
launch is progressing and the same data
that's still underlying the performance
metrics that we look at today
and no matter whether you're doing it in
marketing but really today's scaling
companies need to do it across all teams
right and we've seen large customers
like netflix take that same approach and
used across all of their teams think
about i don't know your facilities team
right um and and in today's on again off
again hybrid remote uh in office world
they're constantly moving plans changing
with the external environment being able
to do that in a centralized fashion
looking at the same data is hugely
important think about the collaboration
between your pr teams and content teams
and legal teams all of them being able
to look at the same information at the
same time hugely hugely important
now when you think about we have so many
things to do and all of those priorities
teams moving at the same pace trying to
get the same towards the same
destination
then you think that wow they're all of
these options
we need to use data to help us make very
informed decisions
on where should we invest and where can
we pull back where do we double down
right because there's just too much to
do it's extremely hard to be at all of
these places
and the best way i can think about
sharing that is maybe again a very
tactical example as we were building
from ground up how do you use data to
inform what you do so
airtable is a new way of working
we need our customers to to
sort of understand the product the
product usage but also best practices
and so we invest in education
we know we want to do this we've had an
ask but how do we go about doing it you
can take data to help inform that entire
journey
first using the research team we
had large qualitative surveys to
understand how do people like to consume
this data where do people like to
consume this data
then using some of our own analytics we
understand
where are people getting stuck in the
process
and what powerful features can we give
them access to that will actually deepen
their usage of the product
putting all of that together we can
effectively come up with a plan that
ends up prioritizing what content what
format what parts of the journey do we
expose
all of this content in right and then
comes to life
youtube and
live video streams webinars
in product videos in context help
support articles guides on the web so
many ways to do it but understanding
where in the journey we can introduce
these things for different segments
becomes very important
and then it's not just about using that
data in in the beginning to come and
develop that curriculum and a plan then
using it at a constant basis to iterate
and improve knowing where you should
double down and what's working right and
and that spoke to sort of like the
youtube stats or understanding how
people are making in
progress in product with contextual help
but when you wrap it all up it might
seem like very simple principles right
but i'd urge you to to create it for
yourself um
how is the customer part of your
day-to-day operation
how are they part of your creation
process
and when you need to move fast are your
teams able to move with that level of
agility when you need to make changes
and you need to expand programs are you
able to do that quickly
sure when you start an experimental sort
of project to process
you can run it in an unscalable way but
then you need to be able to bring in
that rigor to be able to move fast
and last but not the least you have data
backed conviction on what your teams are
working on and do they have that
visibility so that they know that
they're empowered to scale programs
and with that thank you again for
sharing some of these but i will open it
for questions
uh so i'll take the questions um
from that are coming into the first one
here
outside of airtable what marketing teams
and sas do you look up to
um there there's so many wonderful
examples and so many uh that we follow
honestly just from a learning
perspective i mentioned a few uh in the
beginning i think atlassian's had an
excellent and amazing uh sort of roadmap
with respect to self-serve marketing but
we have uh great companies like
salesforce to look up to as an example
that's been able to take a leading
message to market and being able to
inspire
really a sas transition and so the
number of different companies different
maybe formats that companies have
followed whether it be community
sort of formats you could look at again
salesforce is a great example there
right and and so some part of it is
looking at how companies have uh
explored different channels and some how
they've led the way to do marketing
differently
uh the next question what is the most
difficult part uh when you grow airtable
um
i'm
they're sort of as you're scaling the
company there are so many different
dimensions if i i took a personal story
i would tell you perhaps i joined during
the transition uh in march 2020 and i
call that a transition because it was a
transition in the way uh we work and and
i'd say that just adjusting to a new
dynamic was it was honestly diff uh
difficult but also growing teams uh and
scaling building new processes in this
very remote environment
becomes hard and not only are you trying
to form internal connections but truly
also trying to form the external
connections with the external world and
understand a market that is in
transition uh tends to be uh quite
challenging
i think we've all sort of settled into
the new ways of working uh which are
also always evolving uh but but i'd say
that just that that that part and
getting that cadence right
takes some iteration
from kenneth you mentioned involving
your customers in your product
interviews how do you differentiate a
nice to have and a must-have
a couple ways kenneth one is
not only having to
speak with one customer but some part of
that was being able to speak to
customers from different industries or
whichever might however you might look
at your target uh market right different
industries of different sizes to be able
to understand exactly uh how frequent
are some of these things coming up
understand the use cases the reasons for
which these requests might be coming up
and you can have not only depend on that
customer research but there's a lot of
survey-based research as well that you
can use to inform how teams might
accomplish
a task in an alternate way or jobs to be
done in an alternate way and that can
help you then decide what's nice to have
versus a must-have but but honestly even
sort of like the game that i spoke with
about earlier which is like the dollar
exercise uh having customers voting
so many other signals that you can get
it's usually very multi-threaded in the
approach uh to figure out how do you go
ahead and prioritize
different things
a question from from kurt can you
elaborate
on how and when you layered on sales
enabled on top of self-serve motion
how do you map out the customer journey
reconciling free end user sign up and
signing in a larger enterprise contract
within the same company
surely curt so um first first and
foremost i think in some in many cases
or the cases i've experienced the
customer takes you there right in some
ways you see and if you have started off
with self-service motion you actually
see inbound interest and requirements
for things that may come in more of an
enterprise feature
right and and sometimes just handling
that inbound teaches you so much more
about the customer journey as well as
customer success teaches you so much
about the customer journey which is what
is the opportunity that people aren't
able to avail off in the self-serve
world how can we make our customers more
successful so some parties with that
customer centricity
would be good signals on hey there's a
time out there that's growing our
customers need this we have it how do we
actually enable it better and you might
find that a sales
lead motion might help
more in that regard so that might be a
signal that you look at
and then when it comes to reconciling
free end user sign up versus large
enterprise contracts that is the beauty
of product led growth which is in many
different cases you'll find a lot of
different teams that are using your
product all within the same domain
frankly that's sometimes places where
the conversation can actually help
because sometimes you can be that
connective tissue for for the different
teams and help bring them together
sometimes that's the benefit of having a
cross sort of functional
uh sort of workflow on the same platform
but it might also be for other reasons
that might deal with federation or
aggregation of data or resources for the
teams and so those are some of the ways
where you can actually use a lot of the
data that candidly we've not had access
to instead of this non-sas world but we
have that advantage to be able to bring
that uh to the market and to the
customers and and be a partner to them
to help inform how they can be more
successful on the platform
um then the next
question
what are some of the points of feedback
that you're gathering from customers
what types of questions are asked um so
there's a multitude right depending on
the phase of the the uh project when
it's simply in the ideation phase or
trying to understand uh how they would
use the product it's very use case
oriented questions and trying to
understand the depth of functionality
that could be required
but let's say the product is actually
ready and you're you're working and
literally screen sharing with the
customer you're trying to understand
how are they able to sort of accomplish
their tasks how are they able to get
from point a to point b is it intuitive
for them to use are they able to
discover
all of these sort of features and
functionality that you're bringing to
them and you can ask them questions
around that as well and so that's what a
lot of our our feedback that we receive
from customers what is uh very often
it's about hey i love this what's next
how do we take it to the next level
those would be other questions that
would also come
through
who who performs these customer feedback
surveys are the anonymous or one-on-one
conversations uh both uh the the
research team uh performs some of the
feedback surveys which works very
closely with product and marketing it's
just an amazing partnership to be able
to get the information flowing across
all of these themes but also uh we could
even have our customer success teams
participate and our product teams
participate our product our marketing
teams participate in one-on-one
conversations and that's the beauty of
having a beta program and people sort of
opting into it is that you have these
conversations and you can get more
in-depth um
knowledge from them
i'll take next question which is what
are some things that didn't work for a
table when you were scaling your
marketing engine
um
i should i should sort of maybe give
here the context and i'll answer a
question and an another way but i'll
give you the context that airtable's
been a product that's been in market for
a while and the marketing team is
relatively new so i feel like we had so
much of foundational work to set up all
of these processes and unfortunately
have been seeing uh some very good
results from them but i think the things
that uh often you sort of uh work
through when you're trying to scale is
when you're trying to scale new channels
it's never
well and my experience has never been
that you know the first time you're able
to um know exactly the right format and
velocity and cadence at which you can
scale the channel and often it's almost
very very often a matter of
experimentation and iteration if you
have confidence you must power through
and find out how to make it work for you
right and i think i would say that that
has that experience has uh sort of gone
through across all of our channels uh
that that we've worked through it's a
matter of constant iteration we're
saying it didn't uh work but rather how
do we actually uh improve it
the next question how do you buy wearing
the customer's hat tick for your org
would love to know a product that you
purchased from a startup recently
what worked discovery to closure
um
so i buy almost uh an entirely uh from
both experienced and community
community-based uh
sort of
feedback
testimonials um or
rather than testimonials i'd say
evidence that companies of very table
size and scale have been able to be
successful with that product and
on a personal level when i'm trying
something it's much easier for me to
turn around and buy a product i'll tell
you i used a tool called workflowy to
take my notes it was something that it's
a startup i was able to sort of uh get
on the platform and start using the
product uh and it works well for me
but on an organizational level when i'm
buying a product i tend to rely very
deeply on being able to understand both
either through my own experience or
through a sort of similar sized
companies or where we want to be
how exactly we're able to
implement the product and bring it to
scale and see results from it which then
starts a evaluation process and then
leads into effectively a buying
buying the product
with so much noise across so many
channels
how can marketers break through and
reach their target audience uh that's a
great one too um
so i think it's it's hard to to not be
differentiated right because there is a
lot of noise but then you ask how do you
actually
sort of increase the differentiation is
also by increasing relevance and so the
way i think about it is really
being able to personalize
your content
your
value prop for the audience that you are
able to reach out to
and then once you do that it's also of
course and this is part of the
complexity of the marketing machine
right which is being able to reach out
to the right audience many different
touch points to be able to get your
message across being able to use data to
personalize
that
touch point so that it to increase the
relevance but then to also focus and
invest in the simplicity of that
customer journey so that when you do
have them come through to experience the
product
or whatever you're trying to service
that you're trying to to to give them
that it is a very simple journey and you
don't lose them in in that process
the next question
how do you handle customer and
satisfaction
part with through that research itself
right because what you want to
understand is sort of the widespread
nature of it the reason for it uh deeply
understand whether it's specific
circumstance or whether it's something
that's more generalizable and that truly
does become sort of part of the
prioritization process then right
because if there's something that that's
a pain point that's relevant for you as
a business to be able to talk through it
if it's really hindering a specific
customer for a specific use case you're
going to be able to handle it for that
specific customer depending on what the
issue is and so i'll talk about the
various touch points we have to take
that input and be able to understand it
obviously support channels are are
available um but also customer success
channels are available if someone's
actually using the product they have a
partner that they can get in touch with
and
and help convey that feedback we're
doing constant outreach to our customers
to be able to get that feedback and
hopefully those channels are also well
utilized
and then there's so many other sort of
sales conversations or even when they
come to a sort of expansion and renewal
that they could that they're able to
convey feedback if something is not
working
for them and some part of being able to
handle this honestly is being able to
build delight into the product and into
the into the interaction with the brand
which is extremely important um it's
extremely important in this as well but
it's also extremely important to build
that championship and and the loyalty
um the next question
how do you maintain customer centricity
as your business scales
um
it's
slightly related to the prior question
in that how does one sort of increase
the touch points and make it part of
your process in order to be able to get
this feedback right so when i talked
about things like beta programs they
become part of our process they become
part of the language of the marketing
team
to be able to take that and and uh
incorporate that in the metrics that we
follow and in the way we develop our
positioning that that becomes some focus
of it but also to increase the number of
channels at which we were able to take
this feedback right you have wonderful
community motions where you can do
things like have um conversations like
this with your customer or you you can
ensure that your cross-functional teams
are very tightly connected um like
customer success teams or customer
support teams that are able to
uh meet the customer often enough and
can convey that feedback to your product
and those those should be
constant input into both your marketing
and your product uh emotions but you
might also have partner partners that
you work with would also be wonderful
input into and another sort of view into
the customer and the customer experience
with your brand
um
the next question
how do you design your org to be able to
operate with speed and data centricity
so
our design is is is something that that
is always evolving with the scale with
the size and scale and the priorities of
your team right and so it's i'll answer
this question a little bit less about
how the org is designed because i think
different teams can sit in different
places but it doesn't matter where the
team sits if you follow some of some of
those very um
simple principles like one being
you know the data information
being data informed in your approach
when you take that
it means close partnership with the data
team with data team as part of the
marketing team or a centralized team
both i've seen both work wonderfully but
make sure that their input is what
everyone in the marketing team is using
and our market stacks are extremely
complicated today so when you can invest
in marketing operations and allow them
to be empowered to be able to change and
move things fast
another sort of organized it's not less
organizational design but the rituals
that you set the
the communication patterns that you have
whether they're all hands uh we have a
weekly newsletter for the marketing team
but the different rituals that you can
put put together to be able to ensure
that your organization's always moving
in the same direction and is able to
operate with speed
the next question
what metrics do you consider when
evaluating the performance of each
channel
different channels operate
for different purposes right there might
be some channels that you're looking at
and utilizing for the for being able to
increase the awareness of your brand and
then you might look at metrics like the
aided and unaided awareness
there are other channels that you might
be using
to drive uh acquisition in which case
you want to make sure that you have
usage uh post interaction with that
channel right and and that might be one
way to look at it
there are other channels like the
community that you might be using to
understand um
or get feedback but also increase
engagement and then you'd have
engagement oriented metrics or even the
met some of the metrics that i showed
around hey how much feedback are we able
to get uh are we are we
able to interact with our customers
right
and so there's these variety of ways
depending on where in the journey you're
activating that channel that you try to
use metrics that are very specific to
how
you want to have the channel operate as
well
[Music]
you